[Izzy] Next up on the
Digimon encyclopedia is...
Gomamon!
This Digimon is Joe's partner.
Gomamon's white fur can
regulate body temperature,
even underwater.
Now let's check this out!
The fish that appear
in Marching Fishes
are said to be
Gomamon's followers.
Does that mean they wait
around on standby all the time?
Now that's dedication!
(futuristic sound)
Which Digimon will
it be next time?
(theme music begins)
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in deep
♪ Trying to take the leap
♪ Believe you can fly
♪ Become the wind
♪ Soar beyond the unknown
(theme music continues)
♪ Can't hold back
this lightning speed ♪
♪ Trust your heart
will take the lead ♪
♪ Never turning back and
never letting fate decide ♪
♪ Skies ahead may not be blue
♪ That don't mean we
can't break through ♪
♪ Leave your cares behind
♪ We'll never know
until we try ♪
♪ So what can we say
♪ We'll blaze our own way
♪ We'll make it up
♪ We're cranking
up the altitude ♪
♪ Oh, yeah, breathe in
deep, gonna take the leap ♪
♪ Sail into the sky
♪ Over the horizon,
adventure waits ♪
♪ It's calling you
♪ Don't dare think twice
♪ Just take the dive
♪ Yeah, become the wind
♪ And soar beyond the unknown
♪ Chasing the
light of tomorrow ♪
♪ Illuminate a new,
and glorious world ♪
[Narrator] As Tai's party moved
through the maze-like canyon,
Ultimate Digimon
Oukuwamon leading a swarm
of Kuwagamon was lying
in wait to ambush them.
(rocks crashing)
Izzy couldn't understand
why his tablet
wouldn't work properly
and became disheartened.
But after a pep-talk
from Kabuterimon,
he was back to himself.
Izzy turned the tables
on their attackers
using only his own
ideas and ingenuity.
Which gave them the
opening they needed.
(rocks crashing)
Inspired by Izzy's resolve,
Kabuterimon digivolved
into MegaKabuterimon
and successfully
defeated Oukuwamon.
(explosion)
There might be good spot
to land around here.
What do you think, Birdramon?
Sounds good!
(futuristic vibrations)
(exhausted grunt)
I need to rest for a bit.
Well you did fly all of
us the whole way here.
We appreciate it, Biyomon.
Are we finally back on land?
You're a real trooper, Joe.
Thanks for hanging in there.
The rendezvous point
with Tai's group
shouldn't be too far
from our location.
I don't know if
we can walk there.
For one, there's a
huge river in our way.
And I don't think we'll
be able to swim across it.
That's where our Digi-buddy
Gomamon comes in.
You betcha, that
river's nothing!
But first we have to
cross this mountain.
Right! I should be
able to handle that.
That's perfect.
This way you'll be
able to rest, Biyomon.
Once we cross the river,
I'll be able to fly us
the rest of the way.
They said my turn's coming up.
That means we're crossing
the river then...
I guess that's okay.
Those two are doing
all the strategizing
for our group now.
All you gotta do
is sit around and
look important while
they do all the work.
I see!
Then as the leader,
I'll be supervising.
Yeah! That's it!
(ground rumbles)
Huh?
(screaming)
What's that noise?
(footsteps stomping)
(Joe screaming)
What is that thing?
It's terrifying.
That's an ultimate
Digimon, Mammon!
[Gabumon] And those are
Yukidarumon next to it.
Here it comes.
(intense music)
Watch out, everyone!
(screaming)
Sora!
(Biyomon screams)
Biyomon!
(Sora wails)
(grunting)
Are you okay?
Hang on...
Marching Fishes!
What happened?
Sora...
Why is it spreading?
Break that ice!
(grunts)
It's still there.
Hang in there.
(Mammon roars)
Now what is it?
(hooves stomp on ground)
He's up to something.
(snow roaring)
It's an avalanche!
Gabumon!
We're not gonna make it!
[Tai] Whoa!
This place is crazy,
look how giant it is!
Seems like a whole
lot of nothing.
Anyway, which way do you think
we should go from here, Izzy?
I'm looking that up now.
Seems like...
(panicked screaming)
What's she doing?
Get me off of this thing!
Wahh! I can't slow them down!
[All] Huh?
It's a Kiwimon stampede!
Why is she riding one?
They were just so cute,
I couldn't help it, okay?
It's no use,
I can't get them to stop!
On the bright side,
we're actually
headed the right way.
[Tai And Mimi] That's
not important right now!
[Matt] Looks like we
managed to lose them.
[Joe] I thought we were goners.
We owe you one for
sure, Garurumon.
My pleasure.
However...
Sora...
[Gomamon] It looks
like the ice on her leg
from Yukidarumon's
attack is still there.
It just me or is it spreading?
We need to get her out
of this cold environment
or it's just going
to keep escalating.
So it's like...
an ice virus?
Yeah, so we need to hurry
and find a way to melt it.
Oh, don't worry about me.
This is nothing.
(shouts in pain)
You poor thing.
My fire... I can melt it!
[Garurumon] Biyomon.
Don't be rash.
That would only
injure Sora more.
Even making a fire to warm
her up would be risky here.
We'll carry her on Garurumon
to the bottom of the mountain.
(Mammon roars)
There are more of
those Yukidarumon.
I bet they think
we were swallowed
up by that avalanche and
are trying to find us.
You might be right.
Someone needs to draw them away.
Think you can do it?
You betcha! Just leave it to us!
Huh?
(whimpering)
(struggled breathing)
We can do it.
Right, Gomamon?
Mhmm!
(snowball thumps)
Over here, you big jerk!
Catch me if you can!
(screaming)
Go Ikkakumon!
On it.
It's working,
they're following us.
And there are more
coming from the left.
Perfect! That means all the
Yukidarumon are here, right?
Except for Mammon.
There he is!
[Ikkakumon] Ready, Joe?
Let's do it.
Harpoon Torpedo!
Alright, now hit him again!
You got it!
(harpoons crashing)
(Mammon roars)
Here they come!
Hello? Can you guys hear me?
This is Joe.
It really worked!
We managed to lure them
away, but I don't know...
Understood, we'll make
the run for it now.
Let's get going Garurumon.
Gotcha!
(synth music playing)
[Ikkakumon] Think we should
head toward the river?
[Joe] Yeah.
Since everyone else
is going upstream,
we can go downstream to
lure them even further away.
Good thinking.
Hold on tight, Joe.
Huh?
(screaming)
Not a crevasse!
Ha! Take that, you jerks!
(intense orchestral music)
[Both] Run!
(screaming)
This whole mission's impossible!
It looks like we
managed to lose them.
Yeah.
The coast is clear now!
That was seriously awful.
Promise me the next time
you see a cute Digimon
you give me a heads
up before hopping on?
Fine.
(wind echoes)
Huh?
What's the matter?
I felt a breeze coming
from the other side
of the cave just now.
You did?
If wind is able to pass
through this cave that means...
there must be another entrance
on the other side of it!
You think it leads to the
other side of the mountain?
(grunting)
(screaming)
[Joe] Can't you slide
any faster than this?
[Ikkakumon] I can't,
there's too many trees!
(Mammon roars)
[Joe] They're gaining
on us, Ikkakumon.
We've come down pretty far.
You gotta be able to
see the river, right?
I can't see it yet,
but you just hold on, Joe!
We're doomed! They're
gonna catch us!
(intense orchestral music)
One's coming at us
from the high ground!
Watch out!
Look how much distance we got.
They can't keep up
with us anymore.
Joe, hang on!
(screaming)
That was close.
Huh?
(Mammon roaring)
So they were just herding
us here the whole time?
[Ikkakumon] Well, what
do we do now, Joe?
Don't ask me that.
I'm not in charge of
coming up with the plans.
It's no use.
How are we supposed to win
against a Digimon that big?
Remember what's at
stake if we lose.
Remember our role here.
That's right.
Our role is to distract
these guys long enough
to get Sora to safety.
You got it!
So let's go!
Let's play our part and
do what we need to do!
All right.
We just have to stop them here.
Stop.
I know what to do!
Ikkakumon, aim for that spot.
That's where Mammon's
going to step next.
Roger that!
Now, fire!
(Ikkakumon grunts)
(intense orchestral music)
[Both] It worked!
(ice cracking)
Wait a second, now
what's happening?
(screaming)
(both grunting)
You okay?
I think so.
Ah!
It's the river.
We made it.
That was amazing, Joe.
You got us outta there.
(Joe laughing)
It was all part of my
plan from the start.
(Mammon roars)
They just don't give up!
Was this part of your plan, too?
Hurry!
Just cross the river!
(Mammon roars)
All right, we were
able to stall them.
We should be fine now.
(beeping)
What's the situation
over there with you guys?
We've managed to cross
the river safely.
(Joe laughs over device)
How's Sora?
She's resting next to
the fire right now.
The ice should melt soon.
Thank goodness.
We're crossing the
river at the moment.
We managed to shake them off.
You should be able to see the
smoke on the opposite bank.
We're located directly under it.
[Ikkakumon] Look, over there.
[Joe] Okay, Ikkakumon.
Full speed ahead.
(Mammon roars)
Come on, seriously?
(intense orchestral music)
The river water's
being frozen over!
[Ikkakumon] If we
stay in the water,
we'll be turned into
ice along with it!
Then hurry up!
(Ikkakumon yelps)
(Joe screams)
Gonna feel that in the morning.
No way!
That's so not fair.
[Matt over Digivice]
Joe, what's wrong?
They just keep coming.
(Joe screams)
Joe!
(explosions)
We have no choice but to fight.
We can't let them
cross over this bridge.
But they're too strong.
Besides...
(Ikkakumon grunts)
Ikkakumon!
You can't fight like that.
Not when it's only us.
Sora still can't move.
If they get past us,
everyone will be in danger.
(gentle flute music)
Then Sora...
We can do this.
We can protect everyone.
Come on, Joe!
You're right.
Sora...
(beeping)
This is Matt.
What's going on over there?
I can come help you
if things are bad.
Thank you.
But there's no need to worry.
We can handle it.
We can't afford to leave
Sora alone right now.
So just stay there
and protect her.
It's just you and me, Ikkakumon.
And we're gonna stop these guys,
right here, right now!
That's the spirit!
(futuristic noises
from Digivice)
Let's do this.
Alright!
Ikkakumon!
Digivolve to...
(singing in Japanese)
Zudomon!
Alright!
(Zudomon grunts)
(Zudomon roars)
(lighting strikes)
(Zudomon grunts)
Vulcan's...
Hammer!
(Mammon roars)
Nice job.
[Male TV News Host] It is
now day 3 of the blackout.
As emergency power begins
to come back online,
electronic devices
connected to the internet
continue to operate erratically.
All disaster information
continues to be updated
on each region's
official website.
The government recommends
all citizens carry a device
to stay connected to the
internet at all times.
(calm piano music)
[Biyomon] Biyomon
digivolve to...
Birdramon!
Are you feeling
better now, Sora?
Yeah. And it's all thanks
to you and Gomamon
that I could fully recover.
Well, I only did
what any great leader
would've done back there.
(Gomamon chuckles)
[Birdramon] All set everyone?
I'm ready to fly again.
We should head out soon.
Ready when you are, leader.
We're awaiting your command.
All right, listen up, you guys.
Let's go.
Right behind you, Matt!
Hey!
I wasn't done yet!
(Gomamon chuckles)
(footsteps)
[Mimi] Are we there yet?
I dunno about you,
but this place is
starting to creep me out.
Yeah, I think I
know what you mean.
Even though it's hard
to tell in the dark,
it just doesn't feel
like a real cave to me.
And the walls and
ground are all slippery.
Oh Look!
Light!
(panting)
(both vocalize with confusion)
(upbeat music)
♪ We're falling rapidly
♪ Are we gonna lose it all?
♪ What is it you're
waiting for? ♪
♪ The headwind's signaling
♪ That we better
give this our all ♪
♪ Believe and push forward
♪ Is this the strength
we've been looking for? ♪
♪ Is this the reason we need
to kick down the door? ♪
♪ Is the seed of failure
sprouting into wings? ♪
♪ Does the past
decide the future? ♪
♪ So if you hope
to see a rainbow ♪
♪ You need to open
up your eyes ♪
♪ Take a helping
hand and understand ♪
♪ That it's time you realize
♪ If you wanna make
your dreams reality, ♪
♪ It may not be easy
♪ Just take a breath
and take a chance ♪
♪ Next thing you know,
♪ You're a shining
beacon in the sky ♪
[Narrator] With creepy
Digimon behind the scenes
of Tokyo's blackout,
Tai's team learns
a shocking truth.
[Tai] Next time on
Digimon Adventure:
The Jet-Black Shadow
Invades Tokyo.
[Narrator] The adventure
continues in a new world.